README.md, before:

# Colour Splash

## Colour Combination Tester
An easy-to-use website for trying out combinations of colours. The user can then replicate their colour selection in their own website or project. The website is made up of two pages: a homepage with site introduction, call to action, user reviews and contact form; a tester page with interactive color picker buttons and help, share and refresh control options. 

The primary goal of the website is to offer a simple tool which users, from designers to amateurs, will return to every time they need to experiment with colours. They might even recommend the site to their friends or colleagues. A website with heavy traffic offers an optimal space for paid advertisements, should the owner wish to monetize it.

## UX
### User-Website Interaction

**Users of this website are looking for:**

- A space to test out different combinations of colours;
- Inspiration/suggestions for attractive colour combinations;
- Both a simple and efficient way of selecting colour combinations.

**This website facilitates this for the user by providing:**

- Simple-to-use color picker buttons;
- Both background and textual samples that can have their colour changed;
- Straightforward steps for use, including visual prompts, under the 'help' control;
- A 'share' option so users can save their colour selection locally;
- Easy navigation - text is kept to a minimum, clear call to action, two-page website, clean layout.

## Features


## Technologies Used
- This project uses HTML, CSS and Javascript programming languages.
- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - the IDE Gitpod was used in the building process of this website.
- [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) - this project uses Bootstrap4 to make a fully responsive website and optimise its layout and structure.
- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - this project uses FontAwesome 5 to provide icons.
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - this project uses Google Fonts to style the website's fonts.
- [EmailJS](https://www.emailjs.com/) - this project uses the EmailJS API to facilitate email communication between users and website owner.
- [Color-Picker Library](https://github.com/Simonwep/pickr) - this project uses the Color-Picker public library by Simonwep on Github.

## Testing


## Deployment


## Credits

Commit message:

Added user stories and wireframe mockup pdf links to README.md.

README.md, after:

# Colour Splash

## Colour Combination Tester
An easy-to-use website for trying out combinations of colours. The user can then replicate their colour selection in their own website or project. The website is made up of two pages: a homepage with site introduction, call to action, user reviews and contact form; a tester page with interactive color picker buttons and help, share and refresh control options. 

The primary goal of the website is to offer a simple tool which users, from designers to amateurs, will return to every time they need to experiment with colours. They might even recommend the site to their friends or colleagues. A website with heavy traffic offers an optimal space for paid advertisements, should the owner wish to monetize it.

## UX
### User-Website Interaction

**Users of this website are looking for:**

- A space to test out different combinations of colours;
- Inspiration/suggestions for attractive colour combinations;
- Both a simple and efficient way of selecting colour combinations.

**This website facilitates this for the user by providing:**

- Simple-to-use color picker buttons;
- Both background and textual samples that can have their colour changed;
- Straightforward steps for use, including visual prompts, under the 'help' control;
- A 'share' option so users can save their colour selection locally;
- Easy navigation - text is kept to a minimum, clear call to action, two-page website, clean layout.

### User Stories

1. As a new user, I want to find it easy to navigate the website and find the testing tool.
2. As a new user who is not a designer/developer, I want to find inspiration with attractive example colour combinations.
3. As a new user, I want to find instructions for using the site most effectively for my needs.
4. As an existing user, I want to export my chosen colour combination so I can refer back to it when needed.
5. As an existing user, I want to be able to contact the owner of the site with a question about, or problem with, using the website.
6. As a new user, I want assurance that others recommend the use of this tool.
7. As an existing user, I want to be able to reset my colour selection and begin over.
8. As an existing user, I want to experiment with shades of colours, which update and display instantaneously for me to see.
9. As an existing user with a colour selection already in mind, I want to input a HEX or RGBA number directly into the colour picker.

### Wireframe mockups

[Home](assets/images/homewireframe-coloursplash.pdf)

[Tester](/assets/images/testerwireframe-coloursplash.pdf)

## Features

## Technologies Used
- This project uses HTML, CSS and Javascript programming languages.
- [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/) - the IDE Gitpod was used in the building process of this website.
- [BootstrapCDN](https://www.bootstrapcdn.com/) - this project uses Bootstrap4 to make a fully responsive website and optimise its layout and structure.
- [FontAwesome](https://fontawesome.com/) - this project uses FontAwesome 5 to provide icons.
- [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/) - this project uses Google Fonts to style the website's fonts.
- [EmailJS](https://www.emailjs.com/) - this project uses the EmailJS API to facilitate email communication between users and website owner.
- [Color-Picker Library](https://github.com/Simonwep/pickr) - this project uses the Color-Picker public library by Simonwep on Github.

## Testing


## Deployment


## Credits
